Now onto module five, welcome, module five,
which is titled Thumbnail Mastery.
Now we're gonna be talking about thumbnails,
specifically design principles that get clicks, how
to get people to actually click on your video.
Um, and although it's like, oh, it's just an image, there is
so much, this is like one of those things with YouTube
where there is so many little things, um,
that go into a thumbnail, especially if you're a beginner,
you would just not really believe if I were to say it.
So I need to go over this very, uh, slowly,
very descriptive, uh,
make sure you're taking notes on this module
as you should be with every module.
But this one, you might have a lot of notes.
Otherwise, uh, if you don't take 'em,
you're gonna forget a lot of this stuff.
So the core thumbnail rules, this is
what I call the golden rule of thumbnails.
Um, and it's super simple, super short,
but it's really a lot more complex than you might think.
You should be able to guess the thumbnail from
the title, and vice versa.
They must work together perfectly. Now, what does this mean?
Well, if you found your channel niche
and everything, you got your video topic
and you create your title, right?
Remember, the video title is created from the topic.
So you should be able to show your thumbnail, for example,
to a buddy of yours, a friend, somebody else,
and they should be able to guess the title.
Um, and if not, then your thumbnail just simply is
more than likely not good.
And the reason this is the case is, well,
I'll go over the specifics on it.
Remember, they don't need to guess the title word for word.
They just need to guess the topic of the video.
And keep in mind, of course, your title
comes from the topic of your video.
So if they can understand what your video's about just from
the thumbnail, amazing right now, you need to be able
to do this without rephrasing the title
inside of the thumbnail.
The title and thumbnail work together.
You don't need text in your thumbnail at all.
In fact, most thumbnails aren't going to use text
because the text
that you'd put in your thumbnail is
normally already in the title.
Of course, you might see thumbnails with text,
but text is only used to supplement
or make context of what's already going on in the thumbnail.
And I'll show a few examples of that in a second.
And pretty much, I'll just go over some examples
once I go through all of these.
But same thing, vice versa.
Once you see the title of your video, you should be able
to create a concept of what the thumbnail should look like.
This isn't necessarily as important.
The vice versa is a lot more important
that somebody sees your thumbnail
and should be able to guess what the title is.
In fact, the way I like to think about it is
as if the YouTube homepage, let's use a
of course you have the sidebar when you're on
a video that suggested videos.
And the YouTube homepage is called browse features.
But we're gonna pretend
that all YouTube viewers are on the homepage when they're
looking for videos to watch.
And the way I like to think of it is I like to think
of their monitor assuming let's, uh,
just say they're watching on a computer, right?
They have their monitor, and on their monitor we're just
gonna say that their monitor is one big thumbnail.
And you're like, well, what do you mean by this? Well,
I'll actually open up a paint document here.
I'm getting flash banged a little bit
'cause it's bright white,
but I'm gonna show you exactly what I mean.
So this is, uh, somebody's computer monitor right here,
and I'll draw the little, the little legs.
So this is their monitor right up here.
You know, they got their, they're on youtube.com, whatever.
Here's the, the YouTube logo. I know my drawing's amazing.
Don't gotta worry about how amazing my drawing is.
And we have a bunch of thumbnails right here.
So let's say we have three on each row and we got two rows.
Okay, so I could explain this better.
I I'll highlight this in red, their monitor.
So their monitor, I'm gonna circle in red.
And this we're gonna pretend is a thumbnail in itself.
You might be like, well, what do you mean the
monitor's a thumbnail?
Just bear with me. Okay,
we're gonna just pretend like this is a thumbnail.
The thumbnail, which is their monitor, is made up of a bunch
of smaller thumbnails,
which are the YouTube video thumbnails.
So these six Xs right here.
Now the reason I'm saying this is trust me, this will all,
all come together when you have a thumbnail, for example,
your eyes are drawn to something.
This is why people make subjects certain colors.
And these are why people make catchy things in thumbnails.
It's to, to get your eyes to be drawn to that part
of the thumbnail first.
So the idea is if the person's monitor is one big thumbnail,
you want your subject, well, we have six subjects, right?
We have, uh, 1, 2, 3, 5, 6,
we have six different subjects here.
And if this was a real YouTube thumbnail,
let's say we had six subjects in our thumbnail,
which you shouldn't have six
subjects, we'll go over that later.
But let's say we have six subjects in our thumbnail.
We want, let's say this is your thumbnail,
we want the viewer's attention to be drawn
to this specific subject.
So what I'm trying to say is the viewer's
monitors one big thumbnail.
The six subjects are each individual different
channel thumbnails, right?
And we want your thumbnail, we'll say it's six
to be the first subject the viewer looks at.
So the second, let's say they just opened this
like a, um, a second ago.
This was an open, they just put in YouTube
and these six pop up,
their eyes are naturally gonna go somewhere, right?
They're not just gonna be
like looking away from the monitor.
So we want them to look at this one where we're saying your,
uh, thumbnail is number six.
We want them to look at this one first. So what can we do?
What we can have really big subjects, what,
you know, contrasting colors.
We got a blue background,
a red person like this is a person I guess.
Um, and the goal is
to make your thumbnails stand
out compared to everything else.
Now, the truth of the matter is, is
that nobody's gonna be reading the titles when
the screen loads, right?
When they get these six thumbnails.
We got the titles here, but this is kind of
how people are viewing it, the screen loads,
and they're not even looking at the title to it could, might
as well just be little squiggles.
But remember, nobody's gonna press on
your video if they don't read the title.
How often do you go on YouTube and you press on a video
because you looked at the thumbnail
and you didn't read the title?
Um, now this is a rhetorical question
because obviously I'm sure you can't recall the time you've
done that or even really think about that,
but I promise you the answer is probably never.
Um, so when a thumbnail interests you, that's
what makes you look at the title.
The way I like to put it,
and the reason why it's super important
for looking at the thumbnail, uh, the viewer should be able
to guess what the title is, is
because let's say we successfully get the viewer
to look at our thumbnail, which is thumbnail six.
So the monitor is one big thumbnail,
and subject six is our thumbnail.
The viewer looks here first.
That's where their eyes immediately go,
because we just have the best subjects,
the most catchy looking thumbnail, something
that just catches the viewer's eyes, high contrast
and colors, big subjects, maybe even some big celebrity, um,
that people recognize and that catches their eye.
The next thing they're gonna do is
before they look at a different thumbnail, right?
They look at the thumbnail that catches their eye,
and then they read the title of that thumbnail.
And then you might be like, well,
I don't always press on the first video,
you see, and here's why, right?
If the thumbnail's good and it catches your eye,
and the viewer will naturally, before they go
and look at the other thumbnails, they will go
and read the title of the thumbnail that caught their eye.
Now, the way I like to put it is if the viewer in the back
of their head, they see the thumbnail, if they can guess
what the video topic is about,
they're not gonna do on the forefront.
They're not gonna be like trying to play
a game and guess literally.
But if in the back of their mind they see this
and it just connects, right?
And they read the title and it's exactly
what they thought the title would have been in the back
of their mind, then just something clicks in the brain.
I don't, I don't know the science behind it,
but that's just what makes somebody press on a video.
And I tested this more than enough times to tell you, um,
listen, I'm not a scientist.
I can't give you the ins and outs of why this occurs,
but it happens if they, if that,
if this thumbnail catches the eye,
and then the title is what they, um,
I guess thought in the back of their head, not like,
you know, they're not actively thinking,
but their brain assume that would be the title.
And if it's correct and it matches to what they thought,
they end up pressing the video.
Um, now like I said, you might be thinking, well,
I don't always press on the first thumbnail
that is on the screen.
You're right now. And the reason this happens is
because let's say thumbnail six is a thumbnail
that catches the viewer's eye.
They go to read the title,
and the title does not match
what they assume the title would have
been based on the thumbnail.
They're not clicking the video, it's that simple.
And now that's when they look at the, the one
that's catching their eye the second most.
So let's say the next one is like, okay, two, like the,
let's go over the the process
so I could show you in real time, okay, I'm a viewer.
Imagine this just loaded up. And we got six thumbnails here.
Boom, immediately, six catches,
my eye looks great, I go to read the title.
The title doesn't match what the back
of my brain thought it would be.
So now my, uh,
I'm my eyes are immediately gonna go somewhere else.
Okay? Two is the next one. Okay?
Two, uh, I read the title once again,
the title's not exactly
what the back of my brain would've assumed.
The title wouldn't, uh,
would've been based on the thumbnail.
Okay? Number five is the third one to catch my eye.
And then I look at the title
and the title is indeed what the Back
of My Brain would assume the title
to be based on the thumbnail.
And boom, I go ahead and I press on this video.
Hopefully this made sense.
Um, I'm realizing now that my face cam was like blocking a
little bit, but it was only blocking like the, the little
stand for the thumbnail.
So, uh, hopefully you guys followed along to that.
But anyways, this is why it's the golden rule, very short
and simple, but I wanted to give like a short little mini
presentation to kind of show in real time how that works.
But let's go over the principles. Minimal text, text is bad.
You want maximum one to three words or none at all.
You already have a title for the text.
The text for your thumbnail is the title.
Uh, you don't wanna take anything from the title
and reword it in the thumbnail.
People do this all the time, right?
They're like, oh, well I'm not just re-putting the title in
the thumbnail so it doesn't matter.
Uh, but then it's just a reworded version,
or they put a sentence or something like that.
Like, no, this is not how you use text.
And I'm gonna show an example right here
as to how you should use text.
So let's go to Mr. Beast, because Mr.
Beast, uh, there's a reason he's the biggest YouTuber.
Uh, his thumbnails are absolutely amazing
almost every single time.
Some of them I would, uh, like maybe one in every 50,
I'd have like a small critique,
but really all of his thumbnails are just about perfect.
Um, and let's go over just like a, a, a scroll, right?
This one has text. This one doesn't,
this one doesn't, this one doesn't.
This one does have text. This one doesn't, uh,
this, we're not gonna count this.
This one doesn't. This one does. This one doesn't.
This one does this one does this, one does this one doesn't.
This one does, this one doesn't.
And I could go on forever, but look, four in a row, no text.
No text, no text. There's, there's a lot with no text.
And it, when there is text, let's go back
and verify if my claim is true.
Two pieces of text, two words, I guess you could say.
If you count the number as a word.
Two text here, two text here, two texts here,
two texts here, two text here.
But now let's analyze why that is.
If we open his thumbnail in a new tab,
we're gonna see a few things.
We're gonna see. Number one, he has the subject as a plane,
he has the subject is a crowd here.
And although there's a lot of other principles
that I could talk about,
but I just haven't went over them yet in the, uh,
little presentation I made.
So we're just gonna go over the text for now
and probably even come back to these thumbnails.
But notice that with this thumbnail,
if I look at this thumbnail, it looks like there's maybe 50,
60 people fighting to get onto a jet.
Like, look, they're, they're kicking each other down
and trying to get in this jet.
So I know I already read the title,
but I think it's not crazy for me to say
that without the title, I would've guessed
that this is X amount of people are fighting
for a jet, right?
That might not be the exact title. I think it was pilots.
Um, so yeah, a hundred pilots fight for a private jet,
but we don't need to guess the title word for word.
Like I said, we need to guess the topic.
And the topic is people fighting for a
Jet. And that's
pretty much what we need.
Now, let's look at this one. We got Mr.
Beast, we got some girl that are up in the sky,
they have water chips, and it says day 29.
So now we know that the title,
because of the day 29, is actually going
to be surviving X amount of days in the sky.
I mean, it's pretty obvious they're stuck in the sky.
They have empty water bottles
and snacks, so they're clearly surviving,
they're clearly in the sky.
Um, so without the day 29, it would just be, honestly,
it'd be a little confusing.
You would know that the topic is something to do
with surviving in the sky.
Uh, but maybe it would be at
what altitude could I survive at, right?
And they're testing a thousand feet, 2000 feet,
10,000 feet, something like that.
So by adding the text here, it's actually serving a purpose
that the title doesn't give in itself.
It's allowing you to know, okay,
this is a survival challenge based on days.
It doesn't have to do with the height.
Like there, there's a ton of things that I could assume.
This could be, for example, how, like at
what height can I survive at, at
what most dangerous places in the world can I survive at?
Stuff like that. But by putting a day thing, you know
that it's not different scenarios.
You know, that the whole video takes place in this one spot
and that it's how many days can you
survive in that one spot?
So naturally you could think, oh,
maybe this is just one spot, one location,
and he's gonna be surviving different
heights or different locations.
But no, by putting day here, it allows the viewer
to understand, okay, it's gonna,
he's gonna be in this one spot the whole time.
How many days can you survive?
So because of this, you can assume the title is
how many days can you survive in the sky?
And that's actually like, exactly in the the title,
it's very similar, survive 30 days trapped
in the sky, went two 50 K.
Obviously we don't have any money in the thumbnail here,
but once again, we don't need to get the exact wording.
I understand that the topic is surviving X amount
of days in the sky, like how many can you survive?
Now let's look at number two, limited subjects.
You want one to two subjects, maximum groups can count
as one subject if and uniform.
So with the thing is, with Mr B thumbnails,
even though they're in real life thumbnails, these can apply
to anything to faceless channels.
So in real life thumbnails,
I mean, his thumbnails are great.
So let's go back to his channel.
We can immediately see,
and this thumbnail, for example, I said
a group like you might be like, oh,
there's a hundred subjects here.
Well, no, if you remember back to two seconds ago, I said,
groups can be a subject
if they are in uniform, what does that mean?
Well, there's a reason all
of them are wearing the same color.
This is done on purpose.
So because they're all wearing the exact same outfit,
red shirt with red pants with this white stripe, I mean,
they don't need the white stripe.
But, uh, that, I guess that's just
to identify the difference between the pants or the shirts
or I don't know, I don't know the exact
reasoning for that, to be honest.
Doesn't really matter. I I think the thumbnail would've
performed the same if it was just fully red jumpsuit.
But either way, they're all wearing the exact same outfit.
So this actually makes them one group.
So the first subject is going to be the group,
the second subject is going to be the plane.
And then the third subject in this case is Mr. Beast.
However, Mr. Beast doesn't need to be in the thumbnail,
and you'd be like, oh, well you're breaking the rule.
Well, it's specifically for personal brand content
and double specifically for Mr.
Beast, like his rule for his channel,
because this is his brand channel, he simply just has
to be in the thumbnail for every thumbnail.
So in all of these, we're not gonna count Mr.
Beast as a subject.
You'll notice this with other channels,
that there's only ever one to two subjects, max.
You don't want three, you don't want four,
you definitely want, don't want three
or more at all, really.
Um, but if we go to any
of his thumbnails, it's gonna be true.
And this case, you have one main subject here.
And then in this case, he uses himself as a subject.
So there's still two subjects here,
but he's using himself as a subject.
But if we go look at any of his, uh, videos,
he either uses himself as a subject or he's just there.
Um, so you have world's fastest man versus robot.
I don't think I need to zoom in here,
but instead of using someone like Usain Bolt
or something, he just put himself,
obviously he's not the world's fastest man,
but he didn't wanna put, for example,
I don't know if Usain Bolt's still the fastest guy,
but it's Usain Bolt versus a robot.
Just, he probably didn't know
where he would put himself in this equation.
So he just put himself
as the world's fastest man, which of course, Mr.
Beast is, uh, probably not even top a hundred thousand
or a hundred million, maybe even, uh,
for being the world's fastest.
So anyways, here we have a hundred people.
Verse versus world's biggest trap.
You got the subject, are the spikes on the walls
because they're in uniform, they're all exactly the same.
Notice how the spikes aren't different sizes,
how they're not different colors, right?
They're, uh, or I didn't mean different sizes,
they're not different colors, they're all the same,
they're all the same shape is what I meant.
Um, so the spikes are in uniform
and the characters are in uniform.
So Mr. Beast includes himself
by actually being part of the a hundred groups.
You have the a hundred people, he, he is included in that.
So him plus the other people are the group.
And then the spikes of the group. That's two subjects. Here.
You have two subjects.
Once again, he actually does a very similar thing.
You have world's Fastest Woman,
she's in pink, that's one subject.
And the second subject is actually the a hundred
men in this thumbnail.
Um, and they're all wearing the same outfit again,
he just includes himself, uh, as being part of the group.
But this is actually one subject.
Uh, here you have, I saved a hundred
or a thousand animals from dying.
Here you have one subject, like in this case,
he doesn't necessarily need to be in the thumbnail.
So I would just count this as one subject.
And um, like it does say I saved a thousand animals,
but if he was there or not, it wouldn't make a difference.
But, you know, he needs to be in the thumbnail
because that's just simply the rule for his channel.
That's, he wants to be in all of his thumbnails
because this is his personal brand.
And uh, a lot of people click on the videos for his face.
And of course this just helps his personal brand being on
every single thumbnail where all
of these videos have like a hundred million or more views.
So I can scroll for days
and days, there's just a subject, uh,
maximum two every time, every single time here, right here.
Going back to, to the text thing without the before
after text, you don't know what's going on.
You could be trying different brands of water,
you don't know what it could be,
but you have before and after.
This is showing dirty water and then clean water.
So it's clear that this video,
I'm not even gonna read the title, I promise you I'm not
looking yet, but it's something, the topic is
I cleaned water and knowing Mr.
Beast is probably some country,
but we're not gonna use some, uh, the context of Mr.
Beast. We gotta pretend as if we didn't know what he he is.
But because of the, the before and
after text, it doesn't,
I'm sure it doesn't say before and after in the title.
I'm not looking at it, but just guessing,
it's something about cleaning dirty water.
Um, you don't need, I don't need
to know exactly what the title says.
Let's read it now. 2 million people get
clean water for the first time.
So yeah, that's what it's about.
Um, and I mean that's pretty obvious, so that's why I'm able
to just look at it and know
because all of his thumbnails are like that.
So the three things I've said so far,
look at any of his thumbnails.
You'll be able to guess the title.
Uh, if you, if uh, there's text in the thumbnail, then
without the text you
wouldn't have been able to guess the title.
So the text is actually there for you to guess the title.
And then he always has maximum two subjects,
assuming you don't include himself.
Um, like for example in this one, the, the subject is
actually the bowl of food and the group of kids here.
So he's here, yes, but he's not a subject in this case.
Next thing we have is rule number three, take up space.
None of your subjects should be cut off at all.
All subjects should be as large as possible.
And remember, for mobile viewers,
the easiest way I can put it is pretend
that every single one
of your viewers is using the smallest phone.
So like the iPhone SE or something,
or whatever the f smallest phone you can think of
as iPhone five or some Samsung phone.
Just imagine the smallest phone you can think
of that can run YouTube.
And then imagine a 90-year-old grandma
whose vision has degraded as badly as possible
and doesn't have her gla her reading glasses on.
Um, I know that sounds random, but just imagine it
and imagine her looking at YouTube thumbnails
and she's on YouTube and she wants to watch it with a video.
And her phone is super small.
She has her brightness low, she doesn't have her glasses on,
and she, uh, has a really bad closeup
vision 'cause she's 90 years old.
You gotta make sure your thumbnails
are viewable for everyone.
So if you can make sure your thumbnail is viewable, viewable
for the person I just mentioned, uh,
I guarantee you your thumbnail's gonna stick out.
How I showed in my beautiful paint sketch, um,
how your thumbnail should stick out compared
to all the other thumbnails on the screen.
That's how you're gonna do it.
Your thumbnail needs to appeal to the 90-year-old grandma
who has a really small phone without her glasses on,
with the brightness all the way down.
So once again, we could scroll through Mr. B's thumbnails.
For example, just like himself in this one thumbnail,
you could see the top of his head.
There's like a little, little tiny gap between the top
of his head and the top of the thumbnail.
And it's cut off right under his shoulders.
Look at the girl who needs to walk.
It's cut off right at her feet so
that you can see she's walking again
and then it's cut off right at the top of her head.
So both of these people are made as big as possible.
And guess what? They take up space.
So not only are they as big, they're as big as possible.
The subjects are as big as possible,
but without being cut off
and showing exactly what it needs to show, right?
The, you know, his headshot, the girl's full body
because her legs need to be showed 'cause she's walking
and that's what the video's about.
Um, so both of those things are
true and they're not cut off, right?
And then there's also no room
for empty space in the thumbnail, right?
If you wanted to put, I don't, something else in here.
Let's say you wanted to take a third subject.
Like you, you shouldn't have a room
to fit a a third subject here.
Let's say you wanted to add a third person.
Where would you even fit a third person in this thumbnail?
You just wouldn't be able to, right?
And that's gonna be the same for all of these.
Notice how there's always gonna be two subjects besides him.
So right here you have the, the woman
and the men group, which is identical twins.
And then there's just no more room for anything else.
And look, they take up as much space as possible so they're
as big as possible without getting cut off
and they leave no more room for anything else.
Same thing goes here, same thing goes with any of these.
I mean you just can't really fit
anything else in any of these.
And that's kind of the goal.
Now the take up space one is pretty simple.
Like I said, your whole thumbnail should have
maximum two subjects.
So either one or two subjects as big as possible,
but without being cut off.
So like don't cut off, you know,
a character at their forehead
and there just shouldn't be space for any more subjects.
Now, next and definitely not least important, this is, uh,
all of these are low key equally as important.
Um, yeah, all these are equal.
So all four of these I'd say have exact equal importance
with the golden rule being the most important thing.
Uh, but next thing we got is the color strategy.
Now, although this is just as equally as important as three,
as two, as one, this is probably the most complicated.
Like I was able to explain minimal text pretty quickly.
I just showed examples. Same thing with subjects.
I explained it quickly. I just spent time showing examples.
Take up space. Once again, I went through
that pretty quickly 'cause those are pretty simple
content, uh, concepts.
But the color strategy is going to be pretty complicated.
So use color wheel opposites.
One subject equals two colors,
plus opposite for the background.
Two subjects equals three colors, triangle on color wheel.
Uh, let's go over pretty much what this means.
So there's a bunch of different color wheels you could use
on Google images or wherever you wanna look.
This is my favorite one specifically.
Um, if you wanna screenshot this
or maybe I'll put this, uh, copy and paste it,
but this is my favorite one.
'cause it tells you the generalized colors.
You got blue, red, yellow, green, purple, orange,
and it tells you yellow, blue, red are primary green,
orange, purple are complimentary.
Now what does this mean?
Well, we're gonna pull up my favorite software paint.
Ooh, I got flash banged again, but this time we're gonna try
and make it so that you guys can actually see without me,
uh, cutting it off.
All right, we'll do it like this, this
you guys should be able to see.
So let's say we got our thumbnail right here.
Here is our thumbnail.
Let's say I wanted to do a documentary about Mike Tyson,
the boxer, for example.
I don't know, I just thought of something random.
Here's how we would do it. Of course we would wanna make him
as big as possible.
And because we only have one
subject 'cause it's just Mike Tyson.
We want just one subject.
We wanna make him as big as possible.
Here's how I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna kind of come up
with my own little draw thumb.
Now obviously it's gonna be complete garbage,
uh, 'cause I'm drawing it.
Uh, but this is just an example.
So I'm gonna come up with a thumbnail
and then we'll see if you guys can guess the title.
But we're gonna apply all the rules,
including this color rule.
So number one, rule one, we need to make Mike Tyson
as big as possible.
So because he's boxing,
he's probably gonna have no shirt on.
We don't really need his legs in boxing, right?
You just need his arms. So we were putting him on the right
side of the thumbnail, cut off at like his waist,
and then he's shirtless 'cause he is, you know, a boxer.
And then here are his, uh, his amazing arms
and here are his gloves.
Now in this case, a boxer can have really any color gloves.
Uh, I feel like in most cases
I feel like I I I see Mike Tyson wearing, uh, red gloves.
So we're gonna give him some red gloves like that.
We'll give him a little smile here.
But anyways, he has red gloves.
So you have a few options here. He has red gloves.
What do we need? We need for the background to be,
there's a few options here.
We don't want the background to be orange. Pretty much.
A very simple way to put this is just look at the arrows
and either skip two
or skip three, it doesn't really matter.
Um, so it, the background cannot be purple.
So if I go, if I go to the paint bucket tool,
change my color to purple.
Here we go. We have the background color being purple.
This isn't contrasting the red that well
of course it's a different color
and any different color is not gonna contrast well.
But actually purple is just as close to red
as oranges, right?
That doesn't feel right.
Even like to, to me in my head, that doesn't feel right.
Um, you know, purple probably looks like it contrasts more,
but no, it actually technically contrasts the same amount.
Uh, so we don't want purple. We don't want, uh, orange.
Now this is one arrow over one arrow, one arrow.
What we can do is we can skip two arrows, two arrows
or three arrows, meaning we can make it green,
we can make it blue or we can make it yellow.
Now, for me personally, right, if this was my thumbnail,
I'd probably make it green 'cause this is the exact opposite
color to red.
Simply put, it's the exact opposite.
It's gonna contrast the most
because it's just the opposite color to red.
Now, Mr. Beast actually doesn't do this specifically.
Uh, Mr. Beast prefers the other way.
He prefers to keep it in, um, its class. So the way Mr.
Beast does it is
that he either only is gonna use primary colors in his
thumbnail or only use the complimentary
colors in his thumbnail.
So if this was Mr.
Beast, I promise you he wouldn't make it green.
Uh, he would make it either blue
or he would make it yellow like that.
Uh, Mr B probably wouldn't do such a bright background.
Realistically, he would probably do blue.
Now, I honestly think either works
and I don't really think it makes much of a difference.
I think this is probably a technicality thing, like, oh,
they're all primary colors.
Um, but yeah, blue, green
and yellow should in theory, all work the same.
Purple and orange are just no-nos for the background here.
Now in this case, we chose blue
because we're just going based off of what Mr.
Beast would do. So honestly, um, even though I normally do
that, I've been thinking recently to start switching
to his style because I'm sure there's a reason he does it.
But I've done some testing and I
haven't seen any difference.
Like if I did green, yellow,
or blue, it would probably be the same
click-through rate or very, very similar.
Now you might be like, oh, the thumbnail is empty.
And you're right, sometimes it's hard to make a thumbnail
with just one single character.
So what we can do here
and what you know most people end up doing
is you actually add text to the thumbnail.
Now if we're making a documentary, we want,
if we have just Mike Tyson, you don't know what the topic
of the video is gonna be, you know
that it's gonna be about Mike Tyson.
You don't know what it's gonna be. You don't know if
it's gonna be Mike Tyson highlights.
You don't know if it's going to be Mike Tyson documentary.
So we gotta put something here.
Remember max one to three words.
The sweet spot is two or one.
You don't really want three unless it's necessary.
So it's really one to two words, three if necessary,
just never do more than three.
So let's put some text in this space here.
Number one to add some filler in the thumbnail,
um, so that it takes a space.
And then also we need text here to, uh,
identify what the video title is.
There's no way you're guessing what the video title is just
off of Mike Tyson being here.
So we're gonna put two pieces of text here.
Normally you want your text to not have a color,
you don't want it to mess with the colors here.
You want your text to either be white.
Uh, 99.999% of the time your text is gonna be white
with like a, uh, black background.
I didn't feel like doing this.
Or like a, it's called a stroke, so like a, a black outline.
So I'll just uh, show you kind of what I mean here.
So this is how the text would actually be.
It would be like a black outline with white text.
This is pretty much how every uh,
thumbnail artist is gonna do the text.
And this is just gonna be the best way to make the text.
So that's not distracting from anything.
It's not distracting from the colors.
Uh, the rest of the text, I just didn't feel like outlining
because this is obviously not a real thumbnail,
but just pretend that all the text is, uh, like this K here.
But yeah, here's our thumbnail.
Now there's no more space to add anything.
We have the, uh, uh, the colors here of his gloves
contrasting the background color here.
So what is going to be the title, right?
You might be like, well what's the title?
Um, so I want you to guess we have Mike Tyson,
we got Mike Tyson, like, like kind of like a, I don't know,
a photo of him about to punch someone
and it says killer punch.
So the title here would be Why Mike Tyson is the Strongest
Striker in Boxing History, something like that.
Um, I didn't take too much time to think about it,
but that would be a around the topic.
So if you thought this would be a documentary about why he
had the hardest punch, well there you go.
You know, he, it's him about to throw a punch.
It says Killer punch. Uh, realistically you should think
that would have been the title.
Hopefully that's what you thought
because uh, I'm not
sure what else you could have thought of.
Now this is very simple.
If we had like another boxer here, right?
And this boxer, I don't know, I'm just giving an example.
This is a horrible example
for a thumbnail because it looks so bad.
But let's say we gave this boxer blue gloves, right?
We had Mike Tyson with red gloves, this boxer
with blue gloves.
Then the background, right?
We got red blue, the background should be yellow.
And notice how you shouldn't have more than two subjects.
It's because, well guess what?
There's only three primary colors,
three complimentary colors.
So if you had three subjects,
now you'd have a third boxer with yellow gloves.
What color do you make the background? Right?
So the background now is going to be yellow.
I think realistically the way I would do this is like,
let's say I, I um, I'll give an example.
So let's say the dude on the left is Ryan Garcia, a boxer
that is, uh, active right now.
And then right here is Mike Tyson,
who's like 60 years old, obviously not active.
Um, the reason I gave Ryan Garcia yellow gloves
and Mike Tyson Red is
because of course they're both primary.
And I did this so that we can make this look more realistic
and we can make the background,
we can make the background like blue, like the sky.
So this is the sky and we'll put like some clouds here.
Um, and we'll just put like a boxing,
imagine there's a little boxing ring
around them and it's outside.
The sky is a bright blue.
Ryan Garcia has yellow gloves and yellow shorts on.
Mike Tyson has red gloves and red shorts on.
That would be a fire thumbnail.
And uh, if you can guess what the uh,
title would be in this case, we don't need any text.
They're both taking up maximum space.
I kind of messed up with the space, uh, for Garcia,
but you know, I'm just drawing.
But in this case it would be
who wins Prime Garcia versus Prime
Tyson, something like that.
Because the reason, um,
maybe you wouldn't get this if you don't watch boxing,
but obviously Mike Tyson
and Ryan Garcia, they're not fighting each other
because Mike Tyson was more active in like
the nineties Garcia's active.
Now, who would win if they thought,
obviously this doesn't really make sense
'cause they're totally different weight classes and whatnot.
Um, so don't worry about this, I'm just thinking
of totally random stuff, but this doesn't need text
because boxing viewers would
know these two have never fought.
They will never fight. Um,
so if they're in a ring fighting each other,
the title makes sense to be like, who would win?
Uh, if you can put both of them together in the primes,
especially if you put in like a young Mike Tyson versus
right now Ryan Garcia, then
that would make it even more obvious.
Now those are the four equal things that are needed, uh,
to make a good thumbnail.
Of course this is the golden rule, like above those things.
And then we have the walkaway method.
This is just a simple method, um, that I do.
And just walk away from your monitor
until the thumbnail is tiny.
So literally pull up your thumbnail on your computer monitor
and then just walk as far away as you can can
and ask yourself, can you still clearly understand
everything and guess the title.
If not, then you have to simplify.
You have to make the thumbnail simpler.
Maybe remove one of the subjects, have just one subject
or make things bigger or whatever the case is.
And you could do this the same way if you just put the
thumbnail in your monitor and just like zoom out really far
so that it's like really tiny.
Uh, I prefer doing like physically walking
away the distance check.
I've literally done that so many times
where I just open my monitor.
This sounds like some gimmicky like, oh,
I bet Eddie's not actually doing this.
Like I have done this more times than,
than you can count, okay?
Um, actually probably not.
I'm sure mostly you can count pretty high,
but you know what I mean.
That's just a saying anyways.
Um, yeah,
and this kind of just applies to the same thing as the,
like can a 90-year-old grandma who's not wearing her
glasses, who has the smallest phone ever, uh,
with her brightness all the way low,
can she understand everything going on in your thumbnail
and guess what the title is?
Um, and you're like, well,
I don't have a 90-year-old grandma with low brightness
and a small phone to test that with.
So test it yourself by just putting it on your monitor
and just walking all the way across the room
or just like zooming out on the thumbnail and walking
or doing a mix of both.
Um, and this is just a check.
This isn't necessarily like any sort of rule,
but just so you can kind of mimic
or have a representation of
what it would be like to be that grandma.
That's how you can do it.
Now, one thing I added as well is the competition.
Check your thumbnails must at minimum be the same
quality as your competitors.
Show both to friends without saying which is yours
and ask which they would click.
So just show, uh, one of your thumbnails
and then show your competitor's thumbnails.
Show it to a friend. Be like,
just which one of these is better?
Don't say which is yours. Maybe say both are yours.
Lie, you know, um, just to get the real answer out of them.
And if, if your thumbnail isn't getting,
if you ask four people and you know,
they're saying the competitor at least like three, three
of the four people are all four, that's not a good sign.
Like you need 50 50 or in favor of yours.
You gotta be at the minimum, same quality.
Because the thing is, the competitors,
they have the edge of time on you.
They have the edge of more uploads on you.
They have a lot of edges simply just
because of the fact that they already have viewers,
they already have recurring viewers.
YouTube already has some data on them, right?
They have those subscribers,
they have multiple video videos out to recommend
to the audience before your video will get recommended.
Um, their videos have been out longer.
Like there's a ton of different things
that they get an edge on simply
because they started their channel
before years, which is fine, right?
Um, and this whole method we teach is
based on copying other people.
So that's, that makes sense.
And this is gonna happen to everyone,
not just you or one person.
Um, that's the whole way that we,
we teach this and that, that's fine.
This works. However, you gotta make sure
that your thumbnails are at the same quality as theirs.
At the minimum, like the worst your thumbnail can be is the
same quality as them, or it has to be better.
And like I said, simply just ask friends.
I've done this so many times, been like, Hey,
which thumbnail these two are better?
Especially if it's like the same video topic.
Um, and then they choose which one's better.
Or if they're like, oh, they're kinda the same quality,
that's at least good enough for me.
Because if they have the time advantage of you,
you gotta at least have the same quality as them.
I know this is a long section.
I did say in the start though, you might have
to take a lot of notes on this one.
And even though if I just scroll, this is like
so short on the screen, there was a lot to talk about, A lot
to show, a lot of examples to bring up.
So yeah, the next section is section six,
and that's the first section
that is exclusive to the inner circle.
So to anybody that's not inner circle, we're gonna,
I'll see you at section
seven if you're in this inner circle.
I'll see you in module number six.